Add examples to Uptime Kuma integration (#43621)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_integrations/uptime_kuma.markdown

To set up the **Uptime Kuma** integration, you need an **API key** and the **URL** of your Uptime Kuma instance (for example: `https://uptime.example.org`).

> You can create an API key by logging into your Uptime Kuma instance, navigating to **{% icon "mdi:cog" %} Settings > API Keys** and selecting **{% icon "mdi:plus" %}Add API Key**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can create an API key by logging in to your Uptime Kuma instance, navigating to **Settings** > **API Keys**, and selecting **Add API Key**.
```

{% enddetails %}

## Examples

### Global status binary sensor

If you'd like a single binary sensor that reflects the global status of your Uptime Kuma monitors, you can create a template binary sensor. This sensor will report a problem whenever one or more selected monitors are in a problem state (for example, down, pending, or maintenance).

1. Open your Home Assistant Dashboard.

> 2. Go to {% my helpers title="**Settings > Devices & services > Helpers**" %}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Go to {% my helpers title="**Settings** > **Devices & services** > **Helpers**" %}.
```

3. Select **Create helper**.

> 4. Navigate to **Templates > Binary sensor**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Go to **Templates** > **Binary sensor**.
```

{% enddetails %}

## Examples

### Global status binary sensor

If you'd like a single binary sensor that reflects the global status of your Uptime Kuma monitors, you can create a template binary sensor. This sensor will report a problem whenever one or more selected monitors are in a problem state (for example, down, pending, or maintenance).

1. Open your Home Assistant Dashboard.

> 2. Go to **{% icon "mdi:cog" %} Settings → {% icon "mdi:devices" %} Devices & services → {% icon "mdi:tools" %}** {% my helpers title="**Helpers**" %}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Go to **{% my helpers title="**Settings** > **Devices & services** > **Helpers**" %}**.
```
We have a mylink for this.

Author: there is a my link, for on the word Helpers ,🤔

Reviewer: oh, right, you had it there. I missed that one. Scusi.

> 2. Go to **{% icon "mdi:cog" %} Settings → {% icon "mdi:devices" %} Devices & services → {% icon "mdi:tools" %}** {% my helpers title="**Helpers**" %}.

Reviewer: out of curiosity: did AI come up with this breadcrumb, including the icons and all?

Author: no, I did this totally on my own, it is hand crafted 😁

Author: You don't like the mdi icons? I already used them some sections above 😕

Reviewer: I was just curious. No, in the breadcrumbs, I usually don't like them. I don't think it helps much, and if they change tha design, all the icons have to be updated, even if the string remains the same. With the exception of things like the three-dot menu, where you don't actually see a string. Then I think adding the icon is helpful.

Author: I prefer the name  kebap-menu 😂

Reviewer: fair

> 3. Select **{% icon "mdi:plus" %} Create helper**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Select **Create helper**.
```

Author: I think we should keep the plus icon here, as this is a big blue button, helps to shift the focus from the top menu to the lower-right corner. Also I already used it various in other docs to describe the "+ add $subentry" buttons.

Reviewer: Please remove it.

> 4. Navigate to **{% icon "mdi:code-braces" %} Templates → Binary sensor**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Go to **Templates** > **Binary sensor**.
```
We use > in breadcumbs

Author: Do you mind if I change the other occurrences above with this PR?

Reviewer: Please do.

5. Fill in the name, for example **Uptime Kuma global status**.
6. Select the device class **problem**.
7. Paste the following state template:

{% raw %}

```jinja
{% set problems = ['down', 'pending', 'maintenance'] %}
{% set has_label = 'my-label' %}
{% set entities = integration_entities('uptime_kuma') | select('match', 'sensor.*_status*') %}
{% set alerts = expand(entities) | selectattr('state', 'in', problems ) | selectattr('entity_id', 'in', label_entities(has_label))  | list %}
{{ alerts | count }}
```

{% endraw %}

{% important %}

- Replace `my-label` with your actual label name.
- Adjust `sensor.*_status*` if your Home Assistant language or entity naming differs.
- Add the chosen label to all the Uptime Kuma status sensors you want included in this global check.

{% endimportant %}

### Dynamic uptime overview card

> 

Reviewer: The documentation should not use custom components of custom cards: https://developers.home-assistant.io/docs/documenting/create-page

Author: yeah, I get a lot of comments and feature requests about this and wanted to address this here. Any suggestions on how to visualize this with default cards?

Reviewer: No suggestions :(

Author: then I'll remove it
